---
layout: post
title: "about me"
---

# About me
### **Bio**

I am a UX researcher with a Ph.D. in Cognitive Psychology. As a UX Research Apprentice on the Philly Truce project, I conducted moderated usability studies to assess the app’s incident report management feature and the effectiveness of chatbot-initiated conversations. During my time in academia, I published papers on sustained attention, visual statistical learning, and face memory, conducting psychophysical experiments with human participants in both web-based and in-person settings. My goal as a UX researcher is to deepen the understanding of users and their interactions with products, ensuring that anyone can use an app with ease, satisfaction, and joy.



### **Work Experience**

**UX Research Apprentice**, *Philly Truce*, *Tech Fleet*   [July 2024 – Sep 2024]

- Worked for the “[*Philly Truce*](https://phillytruce.com/)” app, in affiliation with [*Tech Fleet*](https://techfleet.org/), aimed at helping individuals in Philadelphia request conflict mediation before situations escalate into violence.
- Conducted qualitative studies to evaluate the usability of an incident report management platform and chatbot interactions.
- Utilized Figma, Maze, and Google Meet to conduct moderated usability tests.
- Used Dovetail for data analysis, including affinity mapping, and collaborated to gather actionable insights.
- For more details, please visit my [portfolio](https://sites.google.com/d/1nPhtirmSyZrdFqOa-8drrHgWMqOX53b3/p/1n-Un5eKAHBUvjYJvFzdcypiTVwhTexjb/edit).
- For colleague recommendations, please visit my [recommendations](https://sites.google.com/d/1nPhtirmSyZrdFqOa-8drrHgWMqOX53b3/p/1Wgr7AwmjcSPT6mENfu_dtuTbaYoFMGmQ/edit) page.



### **Education**

**Ph.D.**, **Cognitive Psychology**, *University of Minnesota*, *Twin Cities*, *MN*   [Sep 2016 – May 2021]

- Dissertation: "*Characteristics of Sustained Attention in Continuous Performance Task (CPT) and Its Variants*." [[Full Text](https://conservancy.umn.edu/server/api/core/bitstreams/9e8048d8-50f3-4ebf-842a-2f377e8a7507/content)]
  - Investigated how environmental factors, such as repetitive motor responses or visual ambiguity, and internal factors, like ongoing concerns, influence the ability to sustain attention and how these influences can be modulated.
- Advised by Dr. [Vanessa G. Lee](https://cla.umn.edu/about/directory/profile/jiang166) in the [Attention, Memory, and Cognition Lab](https://amclab.psych.umn.edu/).

**M.S.**, **Cognitive Science**, *Yonsei University*, *Seoul*, *South Korea*   [Mar 2013 – Feb 2015]

- Thesis: "*Visual statistical learning of temporal structure in different hierarchical levels*." [[Full Text](https://dcollection.yonsei.ac.kr/public_resource/pdf/000000137698_20241002010525.pdf)]
- Advised by Dr. [Sang Chul Chong](https://vcc.yonsei.ac.kr/pi) in the [Vision, Cognition, and Consciousness Lab](https://vcc.yonsei.ac.kr/home).

**B.A.**, **Psychology**, *Chung-Ang University*, *Seoul*, *South Korea*   [Mar 2008 – Feb 2013]



### **Certification**

**Google UX Design Professional Certificate**, *Coursera* [In Progress]

- Currently gaining practical skills in UX research, design principles, and prototyping methods.



### **Publications**

**Sustained Attention**

- Sisk, C.A., Toh, Y.N., **Jun, J.** et al. (2022). Impact of active and latent concerns about COVID-19 on attention. *Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications*, *7*(1), 48. [[Full Text](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s41235-022-00401-w)]
- **Jun, J.**, Lee, V.G. (2021) Perceptual and response factors in the gradual onset continuous performance tasks. *Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics*, *83*(7), 3008–3023. [[Full Text](https://link.springer.com/article/10.3758/s13414-021-02353-7)]
- **Jun, J.**, Toh, Y.N., Sisk, C.A. et al. (2021). Do concerns about COVID-19 impair sustained attention?. *Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications*, *6*(1), 41. [[Full Text](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s41235-021-00303-3)]
- **Jun, J.**, Remington, R. W., Koutstaal, W., & Jiang, Y. V. (2019). Characteristics of sustaining attention in a gradual-onset continuous performance task. *Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance*, *45*(3), 386–401. [[Full Text](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2019-06312-001)]

**Face Memory**

- **Jun, J.***, Tan, D. H. *, Remington, R. W., Jiang, Y. V. (2019). Memory across a short delay: Systematic biases in memory for faces. *Acta Psychologica*, *195*, 39–49. (*equal author contribution). [[Full Text](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0001691818300787?casa_token=C5T8ZYzzW-YAAAAA:FmPd5Pa_wOLiBKHtJ0I2dVuEank9ji72YXfsLYx8ZJX3OoNpN5cVjdy9gsHTB8tHLwA2o0ineQ)]

**Visual Statistical Learning**

- **Jun, J.**, & Chong, S. C. (2018) Visual statistical learning at basic and subordinate category levels in real-world images. *Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics*, *80*(8), 1946-1961. [[Full Text](https://link.springer.com/article/10.3758/s13414-018-1566-z)]
- **Jun, J.**, & Chong, S. C. (2016). Visual statistical learning of temporal structures at different hierarchical levels. *Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics*, *78*(5), 1308 –1323. [[Full Text](https://link.springer.com/article/10.3758/s13414-016-1104-9)]



### **Awards**

**Outstanding Teaching Award via "Thank A Teacher" program**   [Jun 2020]

- Awarded by the *Center for Education Innovation*, *University of Minnesota*, in recognition of exceptional teaching and positive impact on students’ academic experiences.

**Student Travel Award**   [May 2018]

- Awarded by the *Department of Psychology*, *University of Minnesota*, to support travel for presenting the talk “Characteristics of Sustaining Attention in a Gradual-Onset Continuous Performance Task” at the *2018 Vision Sciences Society Annual Meeting* in *St. Pete Beach*, *Florida*.

**Gloria J. Randahl Psychology Fellowship**   [Apr 2018, Apr 2019, May 2020]

- Awarded to women graduate students in cognitive psychology for academic excellence and exceptional potential. Received three awards totaling $9,250 in stipends.

**Graduate Research Partnership Program (GRPP) Fellowship**   [Apr 2017]

- Awarded by the *Department of Psychology*, *University of Minnesota*. Included a $4,000 stipend.

**Department of Psychology Fellowship**   [Sep 2016 – May 2017]

- Awarded by the *University of Minnesota* for outstanding accomplishment. Included a $20,000 stipend and a full tuition waiver, with an estimated savings of $16,000 in tuition per year.

**Asia-Pacific Conference on Vision (APCV) 2014 Student Travel Award**   [Jul 2014]

- Awarded ¥100,000 supporting travel to present research at APCV 2014 in Takamatsu.

**National Research Scholarship**   [Mar - Dec 2014]

- Awarded twice by the *Korea Student Aid Foundation* for academic excellence, with a total amount of ₩8,000,000.

**Graduate Assistant Scholarship**   [Mar 2013 – Dec 2014]

- Received a total of ₩13,630,000 through various assistantships, including Teaching Assistant (TA), Research Assistant (RA), and Office Assistant (OA) at *Yonsei University*, *Seoul*, *South Korea*.

**BK 21 Participation Scholarship**   [Mar 2013 – Dec 2014]

- Received?

**Merit-Based Scholarship for Academic Excellence**   **[**Feb 2012]

- Awarded for outstanding academic performance during undergraduate studies at *Chung-Ang University*. Included partial tuition waiver for one semester.



### **Leadership & Professional Service**

**Manuscript Reviewer**,  *The 2020 Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society (CogSci 2020)*   [Feb – Mar 2020]

- Reviewed and evaluated a manuscript submitted to *CogSci 2020*, assessing its strengths and weaknesses.

**Grant Reviewer**, *Council of Graduate Students (COGS)*, *University of Minnesota*   [Oct 2019]

- Reviewed and scored competitive grant applications to support funding decisions for *COGS*.

**President of Student Council**, *Graduate Program in Cognitive Science*, *Yonsei University*   [Apr – Sep 2014]

- Organized orientation sessions on academic procedures and coordinated study groups and social events for students.

**Head of Academic Committee**, *Psychology Student Council*, *Chung-Ang University*, *Seoul*, *South Korea*   [Jan – Dec 2009]

- Organized academic conferences and career workshops for students.



### **Teaching Experience**

**Teaching Assistant**, *University of Minnesota*, *Twin Cities*, *MN*   [Sep 2017 – May 2020]

- Assisted in facilitating discussions, providing feedback, and grading assignments for multiple psychology courses, including “*Introduction to Cognitive Psychology*” and “*Perception*.”

**Lab Instructor**, *University of Minnesota*, *Twin Cities*, *MN*   [Jan – Dec 2019]

- Taught lab sessions for “*Introduction to Research Methods*,” focusing on basic statistical concepts, experimental design, SPSS usage, and scientific writing. Also guided student research teams throughout their projects and provided comprehensive support across various lab activities.
- Taught and led lab sessions on human cognition and behavior, conducting experiments on face perception and attention, for over 100 students in “*Introduction to Cognitive Psychology*.”

**Tutor**, *Chung-Ang University*, *Seoul*, *South Korea*   [Mar – Dec 2012]

- Tutored students in “*Biological Psychology*” and “*Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience*.”



### **Skills**

**Research & Testing**: Experimental Design, A/B Testing, User Interviews

**Data Analysis & Visualization**: MATLAB, R, SPSS, MS Office Programs

**Tools & Platforms**: Figma, Qualtrics, Prolific, PsychoPy, Dovetail, Maze

**Languages**: English, Korean



### **Career Break**

**Maternity Leave**   [Jun 2021 – Jun 2024]

- Took time off for childbirth and child-rearing as a stay-at-home mother, focusing on family and personal growth during this period.
